Thank you.
Well, good morning, everybody. Our gospel passage for this fourth Sunday in Advent.
We'll be coming from Matthew's Gospel, the first chapter, verses 18 through 25.
So I invite you to follow along in your own Bibles or you can follow along on the screen as the words are displayed and as I read them aloud. And also I invite you to stand as you're able and by the way,
I'm embodying the spirit and honor of the reading of the gospel message. Thank you.
Now the birth of Jesus the Messiah took place in this way.
When his mother, Mary had been engaged to Joseph,, but before they lived together,
She is found to be pregnant from the Holy Spirit.
Her husband, Joseph, being a righteous man and unwilling to expose her to public disgrace,
Plan to divorce her quietly.
But just when he had resolved to do this,
An angel of the lord appeared to him in a dream and said
Joseph,
Son of David,
Do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
She'll bear a son in New York to name him Jesus.
For he'll save his people from this sense.
And all this took place to fulfill what had been spoken by the lord through the prophet
Look, the virgin shall become pregnant.
And give birth to a son, and they shall name him Emmanuel.
which means God with us.
And when Joseph awoke from sleep,
He did as the angel of the Lord commanded him.
He took her as his wife.
But had no marital relations with her until she had given birth to a son and
And he named him.
Jesus
This is the word of God for the people of God.
You may be seated.
Now, in our church right now, you've heard the word Advent a lot.
And if you've been part of a faith tradition that observes Advent, you kind of understand a little bit of what Advent is.
Me.
And what the objective and the goal for Advent is.
But for some of you who are kind of new or can need a refresher, acting is not necessarily
The same thing as you see out there in the
secular world is what we call Christmas, okay?
All right, so just bear with me for a minute.
Advent and Christmas, while they may seem a lot alike, are also a little bit different, especially when you're talking about traditions within the church and the purpose of Advent.
For each.
You see Christmas in a way that we see in the world out there. Second world is easy. Santa Claus, right? You have your Christmas movies. You have lights on houses. You have
You have all these things out there, right?
Gifts and shopping
That's Christmas.
Favourite foods, this and that.
Advent
It's a little different though.
Now that is more of a season of waiting.
Okay? Reflection. Reflection.
Not necessarily celebrating yet.
Okay?
Many of you have probably already been to tons of Christmas parties.
well, last night when i got home from a christmas party, i talked to my wife, like, gosh, how many of these things have we been to between you, me and the kids?
A lot.
we've had a lot of christmas parties, a lot of celebrations, a lot of excitement right?
But in the church, especially churches that observe Advent,
It's waiting.
And each Sunday is focused on a particular idea, and this Sunday is love.
And we're going to look at love through the lens of Joseph, okay?
Well, when you see all these things in the season, you start to get all these emotions, right?
All this nostalgia and traditions.
and you turn on your t_v_'s and you took out a all these movies and all these great things you feel really good a lot of great warm feelings and sentimental feelings that you get in the christmas.
Christmas time, right?
You turn on the TV and you see Hallmark.
one thing about hallmark and hallmark shows and hallmark movies if you didn't know they have a system and a rhythm to all their episodes.
Every so many scenes there has to be a Christmas activity in a Christmas hallmark where there's making cookies or ice skating or
Snowball fighting something like that there always has to be a scene where you walk through a town square There's all these things the hallmark movies that they have this list they have to check off to make it a Christmas because it's a snow
It's nostalgia.
Sentimental.
Warm and fuzzy.
Christmas.
But today's gospel looks at something different.
Today, as we observe Advent, we begin to see
That
This idea of biblical love and Advent is not just all about warming fuzzy feelings that we get with all these other Christmas activities that we do and celebrations.
Rations that we do.
But biblical love in Advent
Can be costly.
It can be
Risky.
It's a love
Of action and not inaction.
A little bit different than the Hallmark movies and some of these Christmas parties we go to.
And so today's Gospel of Matthew...
tells us and shows us that
Love comes sometimes when it's very uncomfortable.
When it requires obedience.
you know it takes away the the warm and fuzzy pieces and here we are in a scene where we've got joseph.
Mary's
fiance says husband in scripture which i'll unpack a little bit how
In that day and age how engagements and marriages work
But in this scene, we have Joseph, who's engaged to be married.
To Mary!
But then Mary is found out to be with child that is not his.
And that makes it very uncomfortable for him.
And some tough decisions that need to be made.
You see, in Matthew's gospel, it starts out a little differently.
Luke's Gospel.
There's no manger.
No shepherds.
No singing angels
it just talks a lot about ah genealogy family trees.
And Joseph.
But yet,
Joseph never has any speaking part, per se, in this passage,
But he says a lot.
His actions
And scripture calls Joseph righteous. Why do they call him righteous?
Well,
We can see here that he is faithful.
And he is serious about doing things that are right.
So things are starting to look a little iffy for Joseph, though. we come to the scene. Mary is pregnant. he knows it's not his child.
And this can be a very difficult situation for him because in
In this day and age
when you are engaged to somebody it is almost it's pretty much a done deal.
You know today's a side team get engaged you can break it off give the ring back sell the ring throw it in the river whatever you know whatever makes you happy you know move on to the next person you get engaged you can engage all you want to do
All he wants is kind of like whatever, right? Yeah.
that's not how it was then. once you're engaged there are some contractual deals going on between the future husband and the father of that bride.
And it became
more and more his responsibility, the fiance, the husband, the future husband responsibility to take care of his future wife, but yet,
They couldn't be married yet.
They didn't have children yet.
And if she was to be getting pregnant before they got married,
They didn't follow the law. There'd be a lot of shame.
And if the child...
His
Every right joseph that every right to cast her out
She could have.
Why?
If they followed the law.
But yet,
And when we read in the scripture, we see that Joseph, once he finds out, he's
Before the angel of the Lord spoke to him,
he was making, he was having a big conflict in his mind, he's like gosh.
She's pregnant. It's not mine. We're engaged
I'm just gonna leave her quietly.
So he was even going to do something that was respectful for her, even though he had every right not to.
And leave her.
Quietly.
well as things happen he had a dream
And the angel of the Lord came upon him.
And revealed to him.
This child and the purpose of this child.
That he was to name Jesus.
And so when he had this dream, and when the angel Lord came to him, things began to change for him.
Okay?
He began to change his mind.
He wasn't going to leave her quietly.
he wasn't going to pursue the option that he legally could and publicly shame her and even put her life at risk.
He decided to not do any of that.
Okay
he decided to stay.
And follow through with the engagement.
Mary
Mary.
And to take on this child that it's not even his.
and to name his child.
you know in that day and age when.
A father names a child,
He begins to claim that child is his.
So when Joseph named Jesus, even though Jesus was not technically biologically from him,
But he did as the angel commanded and named him Jesus. that means he claimed him as his own.
And it puts Jesus in the genealogy and the line of King David.
Which was to fulfill the prophecies.
And so Joseph needed to claim Jesus to fulfill the prophecy.
of King David's lineage being the one that gives birth to the Messiah.
So he names the child.
Jesus.
He saves is what that means.
he saves.
And so now we have this moment here.
Where...
Joseph decides to go against
Tradition,
Take this child, name this child,
Follow through with his commitment and marriage to Mary.
And do you think people in the community probably talked about this?
Oh yeah.
They did.
They probably gave them the sada
Probably gossiped about them at the well.
saying, can you believe Joseph followed through and married this woman who was pregnant that we don't think is his child?
And even if it was his child, they got pregnant before they followed through the marriage, which went against the law.
What is going on?
But you know, Joseph took hold of the words of the angel.
The Lord came to him in a dream, and he was not afraid.
He was faithful.
He was obedient.
He showed us what love really is.
the type of love that we're talking about today for the fourth Sunday of Advent.
You see, love is not necessarily when we talk about love in our faith, about a warm, fuzzy feeling.
that we sometimes get when we drive around looking at Christmas lights or watching the latest Hallmark TV show.
No.
When we talk about love in our faith,
We talk about love that isn't a choice.
We talk about love that is focusing on obedience.
And sometimes those decisions are hard.
And those decisions are difficult for us because
Feeling is not involved, right? It's easy to love when it feels
Good, you know?
To love people that are kind of like us, that agree like us, all of that.
It's harder to love people that are different.
I don't think like us.
People that we wouldn't have the warm and fuzzies about.
You see in this situation here
Joseph probably didn't have warm and fuzzies.
about Mary until he had that dream when the angel of the Lord came to him and explained some things.
We know that because he's going to quietly leave her quietly divorce her and break the engagement
But yet he was obedient and he showed Christian love
By staying with Mary,
Naming Jesus
And being his earthly father,
it's kind of like if any of us.
Have ever had to be a caregiver.
For a family member or someone that we know that's a friend
That was especially going through
Dementia or some other type of condition that made it very difficult.
for the caregiver.
Um, people that may be in wheelchairs or hard to move around.
You know, when you're taking care of somebody you love that's in a condition like that,
You don't always get warm and fuzzies.
But you still do it because you love them, because of the obedience and commitment that you have to that individual.
And so we need to reflect upon that type of love when we talk about love.
in the way we do with our faith.
in the way we do with Advent.
Because Joseph obeyed.
He followed what the angel of the Lord called him to do.
And it can be costly.
Showing the love of God can be costly in our life.
There could be rejection from the world, misunderstanding from the world. There can be suffering.
And even when Jesus went about his ministry and showed us the way,
How to be a disciple of his,
Jesus said, you can lose your life by following me.
And what happened to Jesus?
we crucified him.
He was put on the cross.
For the love that he showed the world.
And that should tell us
And that as we go about showing this type of love, God is loving.
There's obedient love to God and to our neighbor that it can cost us to.
Are you ready?
Are you ready to take on that type of love?
See, it's not always the warm and fuzzies.
Sometimes it is obedience, like Joseph's obedience.
And so when we look at this time, when we look at the
Christmas season
And I was talking to our
Our team before the service, some of our members of our team.
And they were getting ready to celebrate Christmas and put red and green and all that. I said, well, hold on just a minute.
In the tradition that we have, we're in Advent, we're waiting.
Christmas happens on Christmas Day. Then you have the 12 days of Christmas where you get to celebrate until Epiphany.
You'll notice there's no baby Jesus.
In the manger, there's no wise men yet.
They'll come.
Okay
When we begin to have those times in the year,
So, but right now, while we're in this season of waiting, we're reflecting upon the ways that God,
It's making himself available to show up in our lives.
I have the intention of time for us to reflect that we are not forsaken, that God did not leave us unconditionally.
He sent his son. He became incarnate man down to this earth to save us from ourselves.
To defeat death on the cross.
It shows us that God came in flesh and bone to love us.
And so as we reflect upon that, we need to take that love and
Reflect upon it
Love our God back.
But also love the creation that he created and that he loves too.
And so love sometimes.
It's through obedience.
You know, a lot of things that we do, our church does a great job of outreach.
So we provide Christmas gifts and food to many, many, many organizations and nonprofits in our community because we are called to do that.
Well, you do so with joyful hearts.
But sometimes we're called to do that to people that we may not agree with.
That don't look like us
That don't believe like us
But yet we're still called.
To serve and love our neighbor.
And when we look at Joseph,
He teaches us.
That sometimes the faithful choice can be a difficult one.
That when you do love.
It could cost you your comfort and reputation and control.
But mercy is there.
Grace will meet you there.
Do not be discouraged.
And so when we when we leave today, reflecting upon love, think of these questions.
Where is God calling me to stay in love instead of walk away?
Where is love asking me to act and not just feel the warm and fuzzies?
And who needs my presence?
It's just my presence, right?
More than my opinion.
Who needs the love of Jesus Christ in this time of the year?
So may we choose compassion over cruelty
Obedience over fear
And presence over protection.
Because
Love is found within the manger.
Love is shown through Jesus Christ.
Love is shown through faithfulness and obedience.
And may we show both of that to our Lord.
Into the world.
Let us pray.